You just finish the interview it's whole over all that preparation all the work that went into it finally
done.
These are the final seconds of the interview.
What do you do.
Well first off you want to think you're a recruiter or they INTERVIEWER And you want to sound excited
you know hopefully this won't be hard you're actually excited about the job but you made a good first
impression when you walked into the door.
And you also want to and on a good impression at the end to be very positive the area energetic and
thank them for their time if you're able to you can also ask for specific feedback on your interview
performance.
Usually they won't say but that never is to ask either.
And you also want to ask them when you should expect to hear back from them so that you have some sort
of a timeline of when the decision is going to be made whether to give you the job or to do another
interview.
Now at the end of the interview I like to prepare something called a closing statement.
Most people get intimidated by interviews and especially technical ones.
However the first and last impressions are what most interviewers remember.
So at the end of the interview no matter how well the interview has gone whether you think you're not
going to get the job or whether you wasted.
You want to conclude with something that touches on all of these points that is you want to make a statement
that doesn't use the word I.
So you don't keep talking about yourself.
You want to talk about the interviewer.
You want to express how you're the ideal candidate the best candidate for the job.
But doing so without bragging.
So what does that mean.
Here's an example of what I would say if it was the end of the interview and I want to essentially end
off the interview on a good note thank you for your time.
I'm sure you have lots of candidates to see but I want to say one last thing.
There are no shortages of developers for you to interview.
However there is a shortage of good talented ego less developers with ambition to learn.
It's not the ones that are unable to admit that they are wrong.
The best developers aren't the ones that know the language inside and out at the expense of having blinders.
It is not the ones who are unable to admit they are wrong.
I am not the most experienced developer that you may interview today but the one thing that you can
guarantee is that there is nobody that you will interview that will work as hard to develop his or her
skill every day.
Play nicely with all the other developers that the company isn't so narrow minded and problem solving
that he or she isn't willing to try new and novel ideas.
When you hire me you will rest assured that you won't have to micromanage me.
You don't have to extinguish fires.
And in one year I'll be one of your most valuable employees.
I can guarantee you that I'm at a point in my career where I want to be surrounded by a team that I
can grow with and be surrounded by smart people like yourself.
And I've chosen this company specific for that reason.
And you've probably had similar experiences in your career where one company allows you to really have
an impact and propel your career.
I'm at this stage now and I hope to be part of the team with you.
So thank you for your time and I hope to hear back soon from you.
All right.
Has it.
Now this may sound a little intense but who would you hire a developer that did pretty well at an interview
and blends in well with all the other interviews that the interviewer has done or the developer who
wanted it more than any others and really showed how much they want the job.
Again this depends on your personality.
But the idea is that you want to finish the interview strong.
And after the interview you want to write perhaps an email afterwards to the people that interviewed
you.
You can thank them if during the interview there are technical challenges that you weren't able to answer.
You can actually reply to them that you have looked at the problem and you have now find a solution.
And there's something that you can probably do easily by googling but this shows that even if you didn't
solve the specific problem that they had you have take the time to actually solve it now.
And in this thank you email you just don't want to sound like a robot.
Just nice and short.
Thank them for the time show that you're interested in the position and that you look forward to the
next step.
Now if for some reason you haven't heard back by the time the deadline has passed just message him again
and let them know that you're waiting for a reply and we'll need to make a decision soon since you're
interviewing at other companies but wanted to make sure that you don't make a decision without knowing
the situation at this company since you really enjoyed the interview process here.
And this is a bit of a psychological technique that we're going to talk about that in the negotiation
and offer section but that's a nice thing to say.
In case you're just waiting around for an offer because remember the more time you wait the more people
they're going to interview you.
So think about that.
All right now it's just a waiting game.
Good job on the interview and hopefully everything went well.
I'll see you in the next one.
Buh-Bye.